Experts throughout both the developing and developed world have debated whether the advent of sophisticated modern technology such as mobile phones, laptops and iPad have helped to enhance and improve people's social lives or whether the opposite has become the case.

Personally, I strongly advocate the former view. This essay will discuss both sides using examples from the UK government and Oxford University to demonstrate points and prove arguments.

On the one hand there is ample, powerful, almost daily evidence that such technology can be detrimental especially to the younger generation who are more easily affected by it’s addictive nature and which can result in people feeling more isolated from the society.

The central reason behind this is twofold, firstly, the invention of online social media sites and apps, such as Twitter and Facebook have reduced crucial face-to-face interactions dramatically. Through use of these appealing and attractive mediums, people feel in touch and connected yet lack key social skills and the ability to communicate.

Secondly, dependence on such devices is built up frighteningly easily which may have a damaging effect on mental health and encourage a sedentary lifestyle. For example, recent scientific research by the UK government demonstrated that 90% of people in their 30s spend over 20 hours per week on Messenger and similar applications to chat with their friends instead of meeting up and spending quality time together or doing sport. As a result, it is conclusively clear that these technology advancements have decreased and diminished our real life interactions.

On the other hand, although there are significant downsides to technological developments, its’ multifold advantages cannot be denied. This is largely because the popularity of technology such as cellphones allows people to connect freely and easily with no geographical barriers.

People are able to share any type of news, information, photos and opinions with their loved ones whenever and wherever they want therefore keeping a feeling of proximity and closeness. For example, an extensive study by Oxford University illustrated that people who work, or study abroad and use applications like Facetime and WhatsApp to chat with their families, are less likely to experience loneliness and feel out of the loop than those who do not.

Consistent with this line of thinking is that businessmen are also undoubtedly able to benefit from these advances by holding virtual real -time meetings using Skype which may increase the chance of closing business deals without the need to fly.

From the arguments and examples given I firmly believe that overall communication and mans’ sociability has been advanced enormously due to huge the huge technological progress of the past twenty years and despite some potentially serious health implications which governments should not fail to address, it is predicted that its popularity will continue to flourish in the future.
In recent decades, many researchers have studied the importance of group-level cognition. Indeed, to my mind, there is now convincing evidence that group activities improve the intelligence of individuals. In this essay, I shall examine how research in team-games and study-groups supports this view.

To begin with, team-games clearly require individuals to perform a diverse range of rapid mental calculations. This is because, in a sporting context, players must predict and anticipate possible actions within tight time constraints.

For example, a recent Cambridge study showed that soccer players can – within the span of seconds – calculate over a dozen different permutations that could result from a single soccer related action. Such predictive powers clearly improve players' mental abilities and result from activities performed in a group context.

Secondly, study-groups enable individuals to obtain information that they could not acquire in isolation. This is because peer feedback allows individuals to refine their understanding of concepts and to also learn new information from other members in the study-group.

For example, a study by The British Institute for Learning found that, if individuals participated in study-groups, they had a far more objective and sophisticated understanding of a topic than learners who were not part of study-groups. Therefore, it is certainly the case that learning in a group improves an individual’s mental abilities.

In conclusion, I strongly agree with the notion that group activities improve intellectual abilities. In the future, we will certainly see schools take greater measures to ensure that more group-level cognition occurs in the classroom.
Across the globe, many individuals own guns for self-defence and recreational purposes. Gun related mortalities in households – in particular – throw the ethics of such forms of private gun ownership into sharp relief. In this essay, I shall appeal to crime statistics to argue that a person is at a far greater risk being shot if there is a gun in a household.

Firstly, it is intuitively obvious that having a gun in a household endangers children and teenagers. This is because minors do not have the requisite knowledge or maturity to handle guns safely. For example, the US Department of Justice recently revealed statistics showing that 150 American children and teenagers die each year because of accidents relating to household guns. Therefore it is incontrovertible that household guns lead to additional shootings.

Secondly, household guns became especially dangerous when spouses have violent arguments. This is because male sexual rage, in particular, often results in deadly aggression. For example, The International Crime Bureau recently produced statistical evidence that – if there is a household gun – a man is twice as likely (if he discovers his wife having an affair) to kill her in a fit of jealous rage. Therefore, once again, household guns correlate positively with additional shootings.

In conclusion, there is undeniable evidence that having a gun in a house leads to further shootings. Given the strength of this evidence, in the future, more legislature needs to be put in place to limit private gun ownership.
Crime is unquestionably one of the most prevailing and worrying aspects in any society, and its prevention should be taken seriously. Crime prevention can be executed in various ways, firstly through a sustained honest presence in the community and secondly through international cooperation.

A local presence by incorruptible law enforcement authorities may be costly, however, the long-term investment would pay dividends in the future. A safer region would encourage trade, investment and set an invaluable example for younger generations.

For example, crime has dramatically been reduced in the Favelas around Rio de Janiero in Brazil. This was achieved largely through the government committing large funds of money to stationing police headquarters in and around the slums. These financial expenditures greatly benefited the community.

Secondly, due to the large-scale severity and the global impact that crime has in some areas of the world, global cooperation is critical. Operating in a different way would incur significant financial losses and render any expenditure futile.

For example, Somalian pirates in Africa have reigned terror amongst many ocean transport companies in the area. Only through large-scale international cooperation was policing the area possible. Therefore, crime reduction can be attributed to a joint effort between countries.

To conclude, illegal activities are a costly and dangerous fact in the present global economy; however, through large-scale government investment prevention is an attainable goal. Also, spreading the expense through international cooperation the resources invested can be significantly more effective in reducing criminals’ effectiveness abroad.

o derive a double benefit from anything is considered a bonus, and this is especially the case when discussing leisure activities for children. The idea to fuse both education and entertainment into one activity is a goal of many educators; some would even believe that failure to do this makes the activity pointless. Drawing from examples in Sweden and reviewing games, such as Pokemon, I firmly believe that all activities should have an educational value.

Leisure activities are a perfect time to take advantage of the receptiveness in a child’s mind, and some countries are adamant about this. Take Sweden, for example. For many years they have legally stipulated that all children’s toys sold in the country should have some educational value. In addition, for such a rule to be passed it must be upheld by scientific research. Therefore, the advantage of incorporating an education element into toys is scientifically proven.

On the other hand, across the UK, children were wasting their time collecting and learning the statistics of each creature on each Pokemon card. If, however, these cards had been intertwined with more educational data the child could have simultaneously gained a more practical education. Due to the child learning large swathes of irrelevant and useless information it can be argued that the time would have been better spent with real facts and figures on the cards.

To conclude, scientific evidence from Sweden and fantasy games such as Pokemon with little educational value are two clear reasons why children’s leisure activities should have an element of learning involved.
Undoubtedly governments of developed nations should share the responsibility of helping less fortunate nations. Different measures exist, ranging from market access to direct financial payments or even medical assistance. This essay will explain why certain measures are inherently better than other methods.

Firstly, the most adequate manner to assist the lesser developed countries is not through health or education ‘hand-outs’. This method is flawed and only offers temporary relief from long-term challenges; also this assistance can be cut at any moment, leaving the country stranded.

For example, economical help from the UK to disadvantaged regions in Africa has gradually been reduced since the onset of the financial crisis. Although some parts of the continent may be better educated or in better health, the benefit was short lived, thus leaving the countries of Africa to look for other donors.

Commerce is without doubt the most essential type of assistance that can be given. If the lesser developed country has the opportunity to develop trade, then it will build strong capabilities to serve it for the long term. These strengths can develop the local economy and are more reliable than education or health.

For example, while trading with the richer country the government can search for other foreign markets to trade with. This would offer more stability and diversification for the nation.

To conclude, assistance is definitely necessary for the poorer regions; however, ‘hand-outs’ are short-term solutions. The optimum solution is to offer market access so the region can produce products and generate regular income.
Biology is one of the most important areas of science due to its direct relationship to survival and health. Observing the rapid advances made, it has been suggested that it is presently the optimum time to be alive. I strongly agree with this affirmation for two reasons, firstly lives have been improved, and secondly risks have been reduced.

First, comparing life with a century ago it is possible to list new benefits available such as hospitals, doctors, medicines, diagnoses, donors, and transplants, all of which were extremely rare previously. Advances in the sciences have improved lives across society considerably.

For example, consider an operation in France several years ago whereby a woman received a complete face transplant. This would be unthinkable in 1910, therefore, due to science her life has undoubtedly improved.

Secondly, health risks have fallen incredibly, so much so that it is possible to visit tropical countries which previously carried considerable dangers. This is because traditionally preventative measures such as vaccinations, immunisation and prescription tablets did not exist.

In addition over the last thirty years their cost has fallen rendering exotic travel available to almost anyone with the funds. Therefore modern science has increased the opportunities and reduced the risks related to travel, there has been no parallel in history.

To conclude, I strongly agree that biology and improvements in science have increased people's well being and their opportunities to explore the world. This is undoubtedly the first time in history such situations have existed.

Over the last 30 years the West has witnessed the East strive for a larger 'piece of the economic pie', aiming for similar living standards to the EU and US. This has increased pressure on natural resources and prompted suggestions for governments to limit consumption. This idea is severely flawed because it reduces product safety and building products to last would harm the poor.

Firstly, the suggestion that governments should discourage consumers from purchasing 'up to date products' would eliminate the opportunity to improve their safety. This is because as technology improves, new discoveries can be used to increase their utility.

Take for example the car industry, here technology such as ABS brakes, air-bags, seat belts have all been derived from a constant flow of improvements. Therefore if the authorities were permitted to limit purchases, car companies would be reluctant to invest in new features, and safety would never improve.

Secondly, it is true we are consuming more, through ever increasing populations, nevertheless, the argument that 'products should be made to last' is redundant. If products were built stronger they would be more expensive. This would harm the less wealthy consumer, furthermore with modern technology these products can often be recycled at a later date anyway.

Glass, plastic, paper, batteries, and even mobile phones are now collected to be re-purposed, reused and recycled. Therefore durable products are unnecessary and would harm lower income demographics.

To conclude it is clear that if the public sector were allowed to discourage consumption it would harm product improvements and ultimately consumer safety. Meddling with product durability would most likely harm the poor. Therefore I am strongly opposed to both of these notions.

To derive a double benefit from anything is considered a bonus, and this is especially the case when discussing leisure activities for children. The idea to fuse both education and entertainment into one activity is a goal of many educators; some would even believe that failure to do this makes the activity pointless. Drawing from examples in Sweden and reviewing games, such as Pokemon, I firmly believe that all activities should have an educational value.

Leisure activities are a perfect time to take advantage of the receptiveness in a child’s mind, and some countries are adamant about this. Take Sweden, for example. For many years they have legally stipulated that all children’s toys sold in the country should have some educational value. In addition, for such a rule to be passed it must be upheld by scientific research. Therefore, the advantage of incorporating an education element into toys is scientifically proven.

On the other hand, across the UK, children were wasting their time collecting and learning the statistics of each creature on each Pokemon card. If, however, these cards had been intertwined with more educational data the child could have simultaneously gained a more practical education. Due to the child learning large swathes of irrelevant and useless information it can be argued that the time would have been better spent with real facts and figures on the cards.

To conclude, scientific evidence from Sweden and fantasy games such as Pokemon with little educational value are two clear reasons why children’s leisure activities should have an element of learning involved.

The world today uses more renewable energy than ever before since it contributes to the preservation of the environment and is economically sound; however, some argue that green energy could undermine the reliability of the global supply as a result of its dependency on climatic and meteorological phenomena. This essay will examine both views, but personally, I strongly advocate the adoption of renewable sources of energy.

On the one hand, opponents of renewables claim that the world could face disruptions to the power supply should they be fully adopted. This is largely due to the fact that many green energy technologies currently in use depend on changeable and unpredictable phenomena such as wind, rain and cloud cover.

To take the fastest growing sector as an example, solar panels can only be used in the presence of strong and direct sunlight, and although the problem of directness has already been somewhat solved with moving panel arrays, a cloudy few days could still result in a blackout if we depended entirely on solar power; something that is unlikely to occur today given current oil stockpiles.

However, fossil fuels are a larger threat to energy security since they are certainly finite in quantity, whereas renewable energy is effectively infinite; once the Earth’s oil is depleted, there will be no energy security without green energy technologies.

Furthermore, problems of unpredictability can be mitigated by improving battery technologies (to create a larger buffer), building more renewable energy generators (to increase supply during ideal conditions) and improving current technologies (to increase efficiency), such as in the moving solar panel example. Proponents of renewables therefore claim that they are the most economically sound option.

To conclude, while many may believe that green energy technologies are a threat to energy security, the fossil fuels they frequently promote are a greater threat, and renewables are in fact the only sound option, both economically and environmentally.

The debate over a child's moral education is difficult due to the various view points each party holds. The question of discipline is exceptionally important, moreover whether to treat good behaviour with a neutral attitude or to just focus on correcting incorrect actions.

My personal opinion is that any positive actions ought to be immediately recognised by the parent and vice versa for negative conduct. This balanced approach makes for a more positive outcome for both the child and family.

Firstly rewarding a good act immediately signals a positive reaction in the child's brain which should encourage the child to want to behave similar in the future. Failure to recognise such behaviour leaves the child with the same emotional feeling as if they had done nothing. Therefore rewarding the child regularly for good behaviour enforces the action making it more likely to repeat itself in the future.

Secondly punishing the son or daughter is also necessary, failure to discipline could have serious consequences in the future. For example if a child has no clear concept of respect for elders or authority it is quite possible to encounter more serious problems later in life.

This pattern is prevalent in marginal neighbourhoods throughout the world. Therefore it is essential to immediately discipline the child whenever witnessing an unruly act so as to enforce the correct behaviour from an early age.

To conclude both bad and good actions need to be recognised and dealt with immediately to correct or encourage the future actions. Failure to do either of these could result in a less fortunate life or a youth who rarely performs any good acts for anyone. Therefore it is critical that both types of behaviour are recognised dealt with accordingly for the benefit of the child in the future.

In recent times, pet related injuries and mortalities have sparked heated debates about whether it is healthy for children to be around pets. In this essay I shall argue that such dangers are overemphasised and that children receive substantive psychological benefits through having pets.

To begin with, although exotic pets (e.g. snakes, spiders, apes, etc.) have been known to occasionally hurt and even kill children, such incidents are so statistically rare as to be negligible. This is because the overwhelming majority of children have non-lethal cats, dogs, fish, rodents and rabbits for pets.

For example The Child Safety Institute found that over 90% of children owned the aforementioned pets, and professed that they had never felt in the least bit endangered by them. Seen in this light, it is clearly unfounded to claim that pets present any physical danger to children.

Secondly, pets can impact positively upon child psychology. This is because young pet owners frequently empathise with their pets and perform a diverse range of actions to maintain their well being (e.g. feeding, grooming, administering medicine, etc).

For example, the Cambridge Developmental Psychology Unit found that children who had grown up with pets were 30% less likely to bully others and resolve conflicts through aggression. Consequently, it is undeniable that a child’s pro-sociality and mental health can be improved through exposure to pets.

In conclusion, the cited evidence provides strong support for the view that children owning pets is a good thing. In the future, as more laws are introduced to ban the ownership of illegally acquired exotic pets, this viewpoint will no doubt surge in popularity.

The importance of global media appears to increase year after year, so much so there have been calls to introduce news channels into the classroom. I believe this to be politically dangerous and potentially damaging due to the nature of international media.

Firstly, considering the importance education has in a modern society, it is extremely worrying and dangerous to even consider substituting school subjects with international news. This is because the danger lies in choosing a correct, balanced, unbiased and neutral news source, if one even exists.

For example if a child spent their school days watching FOX NEWS, they would potentially have a skewed opinion of the world due to its unabashed right-wing credentials. Therefore, changing a child's information diet from traditional subjects such as music, PE, or geography to watching a potentially partisan news channel is an extremely worrying and risky idea.

Secondly, if international news were to become a new subject it could have a detrimental emotional impact on young minds. This is because in general the majority of news is of a negative nature, hence the expression, "If it bleeds, it leads".

For example, studies by the EFE News Agency show that 85% of headlines are negative in nature, usually referring to natural disasters, war, famine, etc. The logic of having these types of stories beamed into a school to those of an impressionable age has to be challenged. Thus the obligation of watching news of a negative nature makes for a convincing argument against such an innovation.

To conclude, due to the risk from political influences and the harsh reality of global news, I am strongly in favor of maintaining the current curriculum.

Ever since the industrial revolution, mass produced goods have flooded the consumer market. Although such goods have proved to be highly popular, it is now becoming increasingly clear that handmade goods are more desirable for modern, informed consumers. In this essay, I shall look at some of the ethical and quality-based reasons for this re-evaluation.

To begin with, handmade goods can be made with far more care and attention to detail than mass produced goods. This is because machines lack a sensitivity that experienced craftsman evidently possess. For example, a study by the International Consumerist Society found that handmade furniture, musical instruments and jewellery were consistently rated as being more attractive (by consumers) than their mass made counterparts. Therefore it is clear that buyers prefer handmade goods for reasons that relate to quality of workmanship.

Secondly, handmade production companies have far more ethical attitudes towards the environment. This is because factories and chemical processes heavily underpin mass industrial production.

For example the British Green Party found that the levels of toxicity and environmental damage outside handmade production centres were paltry compared to the levels found outside factories used for mass production. Consequently, since modern consumers are more environmentally conscious than ever before, these findings have clearly contributed to their preference for handmade goods.

In conclusion, there are compelling reasons for why modern consumers favour handmade goods. In the future, as environmental issues worsen, this preference will no doubt grow more pronounced.

The question of women’s rights has always sparked heated controversy. While some traditionalists claim that women should focus on the upkeep of their homes and children, more liberal minded people have claimed that women should have the same rights as men. In this essay, I shall refer to sociological studies that vindicate the correctness of the liberal view.

To begin with, it is false to believe that a woman cannot have a job and raise her children effectively. This is because part-time and online work obviously gives women the time and space to care for their children. For example, the Organisation for Child Care found that mothers who did part time or online work spent as much time with their children (after school hours) as housewives. Therefore, it is incoherent to claim – as traditionalists do – that having a career compromises a mother’s ability to care for her children.

Secondly, mothers who work also gain the means to invest more in their children’s education and personal development. This is because an additional source of revenue enables parents to send their children to private schools and extra-mural classes. For example, a Harvard study found that parents were 50% more likely to invest in these goods if both parents had separate sources of financial income. It is therefore clear that being a working mother can facilitate, rather than impede, good parenting.

In conclusion, there is strong evidence that women can have jobs and be good mothers. Seen in this light, it is clear that the traditionalist view is largely baseless, and that it will continue to decline in popularity.

The debate between where to allocate valuable teaching resources probably started with the first educational institutions. In present-day society the conflict continues and rightly so. In my opinion converting sports classes to more traditional subjects has two significant advantages. Firstly, it is a more effective use of a student’s time. Secondly, in the future, academic skills are more useful.

Switching time spent on sport in a school to time spent on more academic activities is a wise and cost-effective solution. Firstly, academic studies are inherently less expensive to perform when compared to physical education.

For example, to play almost any sport one has to invest in the appropriate equipment, ranging from shorts, t-shirts to rackets and balls. Furthermore, excess time is spent in the changing rooms or washing afterwards. In more traditional subjects, students merely enter the classroom and are learning within minutes.

Secondly, sport can be argued as an activity practised naturally by children, especially boys. In every school at break time many children engage in energetic activities, whereas hardly any are studying algebra, biology or physics. Because these subjects are less popular more resources should be allocated to teaching them.

In addition, academic skills could be argued as more important due to the small number of people in society currently using sport skills in a work environment. Thus, focussing on skills demanded by the labour market would benefit students’ lives dramatically in the future.

To conclude, young learners going through school would finish much better prepared for life avoiding sport tuition. Furthermore, they would have taken full advantage of their school years through more time spent learning.

Educational reform is a contentious issue with various trends coming and going over the last few decades. While many people believe that schools should focus on more enjoyable activities in order to maintain student engagement, I strongly advocate to maintain a traditional approach so as to maintain order. This essay will review both sides and use examples from a survey performed in the UK and an academic report from a prominent university.

Learners who are required to absorb information via conventional academic methods often experience problems with focus and attention. More specifically, repeatedly performing the same memory-based task throughout one’s school career is likely to cause boredom and ultimately result in student disengagement.

In several schools in the UK, to take an example, it has been shown via survey that a considerable number of young people fail to remember crucial information simply because it was uninteresting. Adhering strictly to rote learning is therefore harmful to those students who require further assistance to remember key details.

Although there is a case for more entertainment in schools, and even interactive media, the appearance of such possible distractions in the classroom, cannot be overstated. This is largely because of two reasons, firstly teachers would have to be re-trained to use such media and this could lead to considerably increasing education expenses.

Secondly, for a more fun class to happen the teacher has to be firmly in control of the classroom or disobedience and unruly behaviour could ensue. This was proven in a recent study by Oxford University that showed that over 91% of teachers who implemented an entertainment oriented curriculum stated that they quickly lost control of the students. Thus it is possible to state beyond doubt that more entertainment in the classroom will not only increase costs but even augment poor behaviour.

To conclude, from the arguments and examples given I firmly believe that although more entertaining education can lead to fully inclusive classes, the risk for a teacher losing control of the class is too high a price to pay. Discipline must be maintained or zero education will happen. It is predicted that traditional teaching methods that incorporate total classroom control will continue to grow in importance.

Whether the development of modern technology should be permitted to advance unhindered, or improved only with specific regard to human need, is a contentious issue. Since learning to use new technologies strengthens intellect, I believe that new devices should be developed without limits in order to challenge people.

The achievements of humanity over the last century have only been made possible by the development of modern technology. Driven by the need to discover, people have created countless innovations in fields such as electronics, medicine and engineering which have improved the lives of billions.

Additionally, many key discoveries throughout history were made while investigating something else entirely, such as with penicillin or the microwave oven. Establishing controls over what may or may not be investigated could therefore severely limit new discoveries.

This style of innovation also provides intellectual benefits for both the inventor and the consumer, since both must work hard in order to either create or use the new device. A constant flow of new discoveries maintains mental stimulation amongst those who choose to make use of them.

The computer, for example, has enabled humans to achieve remarkable things, but only after we adapted our behaviour and learned to use it fully. Also, those people who have maintained a good degree of computer literacy are now able to seek the best professional opportunities, which is further known to be intellectually beneficial.

In conclusion, I believe that technology should be allowed to develop freely and that humans should adapt their behaviour to emerging discoveries. This will keep us intellectually strong and ensure that the maximum good can come from scientific endeavour.
Whether the development of modern technology should be permitted to advance unhindered, or improved only with specific regard to human need, is a contentious issue. Since learning to use new technologies strengthens intellect, I believe that new devices should be developed without limits in order to challenge people.

The achievements of humanity over the last century have only been made possible by the development of modern technology. Driven by the need to discover, people have created countless innovations in fields such as electronics, medicine and engineering which have improved the lives of billions.

Additionally, many key discoveries throughout history were made while investigating something else entirely, such as with penicillin or the microwave oven. Establishing controls over what may or may not be investigated could therefore severely limit new discoveries.

This style of innovation also provides intellectual benefits for both the inventor and the consumer, since both must work hard in order to either create or use the new device. A constant flow of new discoveries maintains mental stimulation amongst those who choose to make use of them.

The computer, for example, has enabled humans to achieve remarkable things, but only after we adapted our behaviour and learned to use it fully. Also, those people who have maintained a good degree of computer literacy are now able to seek the best professional opportunities, which is further known to be intellectually beneficial.

In conclusion, I believe that technology should be allowed to develop freely and that humans should adapt their behaviour to emerging discoveries. This will keep us intellectually strong and ensure that the maximum good can come from scientific endeavour.

It is supposed by many that copyright laws may be counterproductive and could hinder creative endeavour; however, personally, I disagree with this idea and opine strongly that the protection of intellectual property is crucial to a well-functioning society, and, in fact, encourages the production of further works by providing a framework within which innovators may be adequately rewarded for their efforts.

Copyright regulations may prevent people from expanding on existing ideas, but a key purpose of such rules is to ensure that new ideas are sufficiently original to warrant financial reward. It is unlikely that members of the public could discern an original piece from a fraud, and so the support of the courts is necessary in order to uphold standards of originality.

The US federal government states, for instance, that such laws exist to stimulate artistic creativity for the general public good, and to ensure reasonable return to authors and inventors. Through this process, the law establishes incentives for producing new works, which in turn encourages learning, progress, and development.

Without such regulations, individuals would be free to copy another’s work. As mentioned above, the general public cannot reasonably be expected to defend authenticity, and so would-be fraudsters may receive a financial reward comparable to that of the originator.

Resultantly, in countries with substandard protections for artists, for example, creative output is consistently and considerably lower than that of nations with strong intellectual property regulations since the genuine owner of the work is afforded little protection or reward. If we accept that more creative output is good for society, then copyright law can be taken as the same.

To conclude, copyright regulations are an essential tool for the promotion of creativity, and society tends to function better with their enforcement.

In recent years, children, like adults, have become increasingly exposed to computers. While some child psychologists have claimed that this is a good thing, others have claimed that it has an overwhelmingly detrimental impact on children. In this essay, I shall draw upon a number of studies in cognitive science and industrial psychology that reveal the positive and negative aspects of this phenomenon.

To begin with, there are clearly reasons why computers do not allow children to develop long attention spans. This is because computers are packed with many supposedly child-friendly games that require minimal levels of concentration in order to be enjoyed.

For example, a study by the New York Child Learning Association found that children who read from picture books were 50% less likely to get distracted than children who played educational computer games. Therefore computers almost certainly have a negative impact on young children.

However, since the world has become heavily reliant on computers, there are also clearly advantages to exposing children to computers. This is because children with such exposure will stand a better chance of finding employment.

For example, after being interviewed by Yale psychologists, over 70% of young office workers admitted that they had spent long hours on computers in their middle and late childhood years. Therefore it is clear that computer exposure can be beneficial to children.

In conclusion, there are advantages and disadvantages to early computer exposure. However, if, in the future, the quality of educational gaming is increased, there is good reason to believe that these negative consequences will fall entirely away.

It is common for a student to take a gap-year in a foreign country or even work for a year prior to university. Whether a student should engage in travelling or working before embarking on a formal qualification has been a topic of debate for various years. Firstly the advantages of such activities will be discussed, followed by all the economical disadvantages one encounters on such endeavours.

The benefits of resisting university for a year to travel or work open the students mind to new worlds, such as having responsibility at work or learning a new language abroad. Having spent a year in Australia prior to university I learnt how to look for work, become responsible with finances and other essential life skills such as cooking.

Upon starting university various tasks such as money management and employment were second nature thus allowing more time for studies. Without having gone abroad university life would undoubtedly be more challenging.

The disadvantages are mainly cost related, the airfare, travel insurance, national insurance and personal living costs are large sums. However finding another opportunity to go abroad is difficult once the pattern of normal life is resumed.

In addition it also an opportunity to experiment with different jobs before choosing a career at university. Therefore there is a considerable advantage of taking a year out before higher education.

To conclude, the main disadvantages are the costs involved, however the benefits dramatically outweigh the disadvantages. Time should be spent wisely as it can never be recuperated unlike money which can be spent and earned. 

The issue of whether to spend one’s hard earned wages on attending expensive football, rugby or baseball matches or other exclusive diversions as opposed using it more wisely and prudently has become a matter of concern for many.

Critics argue that such frivolity is a misuse of precious funds however, I personally believe the opposite. This essay will discuss why the benefits of attending sport or cultural occasions are worth more than the actual ticket price by using examples taken from the Harvard Business Review and the Woodstock Festival.

On the one hand those festival goers and sports fans who attend concerts, gigs, matches or athletic competitions happily extol the virtues of these on their overall well-being, both physical and mental. The main reason for this is twofold, firstly by watching, participating and enjoying a game people’s overactive stress levels can be radically reduced.

Secondly, many such important and well-respected events have become a noteworthy opportunity for socializing or networking. For example, a recent article published by the Harvard Business Review showed that key, ambitious top executives in the 500 Fortune companies had invested in tickets for basketball games not only for themselves but for their clients aiming to seek distraction and amusement while entertaining and nurturing future business contacts.

Therefore, although it could be suggested that the high price of ticket sales has been exacerbated by powerful Corporates or event organizers with sky high budgets, there is no doubt of the positive spin- offs to health and business.

On the other hand, if money is no object, then there is overwhelming evidence that going to festivals, attending concerts or investing in experiences is a growing trend which is appreciated because of its ability to build fond and durable memories which last a lifetime and become part of a family’s history.

An example of this was the mythical Woodstock music festival in 1969, which was a peaceful milestone witnessed by thousands of people who have afforded it legendary status. Thus, the emotional value of such events cannot be overstated.

To conclude from the aforementioned arguments, I firmly believe that despite the frequently prohibitively high prices of attending sport and cultural events, doing so can be enormously positive and justifiable for the benefits it brings to those who are there.  

From the significant growth in richly diverse Festivals worldwide, it could be predicted that in the future this kind of events will continue to grow in popularity as people elect to spend their earnings on experiences rather than in material goods.

It is common for a student to take a gap-year in a foreign country or even work for a year prior to university. Whether a student should engage in travelling or working before embarking on a formal qualification has been a topic of debate for various years. Firstly the advantages of such activities will be discussed, followed by all the economical disadvantages one encounters on such endeavours.

The benefits of resisting university for a year to travel or work open the students mind to new worlds, such as having responsibility at work or learning a new language abroad. Having spent a year in Australia prior to university I learnt how to look for work, become responsible with finances and other essential life skills such as cooking.

Upon starting university various tasks such as money management and employment were second nature thus allowing more time for studies. Without having gone abroad university life would undoubtedly be more challenging.

The disadvantages are mainly cost related, the airfare, travel insurance, national insurance and personal living costs are large sums. However finding another opportunity to go abroad is difficult once the pattern of normal life is resumed.

In addition it also an opportunity to experiment with different jobs before choosing a career at university. Therefore there is a considerable advantage of taking a year out before higher education.

To conclude, the main disadvantages are the costs involved, however the benefits dramatically outweigh the disadvantages. Time should be spent wisely as it can never be recuperated unlike money which can be spent and earned. 


Firstly, men are undoubtedly better adapted genetically to perform physical tasks. Therefore, the assumption that women can match men in everything is clearly flawed. The difference between their physical abilities is clearly demonstrated in the sporting arena. Take, for example, the Olympics or any international sporting event. It can be clearly seen that in these competitions the genders are separated due to inherent differences between the sexes.

Secondly, it has been argued that women are less appreciated in society due to their traditional roles in the home. This statement is true to a certain extent because it largely depends on the society. In certain traditional societies in Africa, females working is frowned upon and is seen as neglecting the family, whereas in Afghanistan, in general, females are allowed to do little else but stay at home, being a housewife.

Consequently a woman’s value is largely dictated by the society, culture and history. Nevertheless, to state that her place is in the home is widely considered sexist in modern western societies.

To conclude, differences do certainly exist; however, these are largely through nature. Also, the role women may have is usually dictated by other factors, such as, religion or society, not ability.



The importance and popularity of web-based language translation applications has  grown over the past few years due to globalization. People from vastly different geographical zones, educational backgrounds and cultural beliefs are more inclined to use such mobile applications to learn and understand a foreign language.

I strongly agree that its positives of this development outweigh the negatives, and, in this essay, I will discuss this using examples of current apps and The Times newspaper.

On the one hand, there is ample evidence that constant access to mobile phones has been immeasurably beneficial to both our social life and business careers. Nowadays, citizens are migrating to different countries in order to build a new future and dealing with overseas companies for business purposes, so learning a second language has become their necessity. Such mobile applications are facilitating them by providing a handy solution to their language barriers.

For example, Play store and Apple app store advertise multiple  paid and free to use  apps such as Duolingo, Dictionary, Grammarly and Ginger which instantly translate one language into another allowing crucial communication, be it social or commercial to happen seamlessly. Therefore, it is apparent that many key aspects of people’s lives are is being made easy through these handy and ready to use solutions.

On the other hand, whether language conversion apps benefit the public or cause potential losses to a key section of the education establishment is also a controversial topic for discussion. A recent study published in The Times newspaper has shown that there has been a significant reduction in demand for bilingual teachers or native language tutors  as more people have started using such apps instead of spending money on the specialist tuition required to learn a new tongue.

For an instance, free apps simply require basic registration details and email verification to register then begin, compared to the many hours or even years needed to master an additional language to a proficient level of fluency. As a result, despite the indisputable benefits of learning face to face, talented and experienced professors, translators and interpreters are having to fight to justify their relevance in this new world.

To conclude, I believe that if the situation favours the relatively accurate, easily accessible use of online translation applications, which offer instant and quick solutions they can be hugely  beneficial for the community at large and in the future their flexibility and sophistication will continue to be improved.

With the advent of urbanisation and the rise in popularity of fast food, there have been accompanying issues with rising obesity rates – especially in developed countries like England and the USA. After providing a careful analysis of why obesity has risen so sharply in these countries, I shall suggest a number of ways in which the obesity epidemic can be ameliorated.

To begin with, it should be unsurprising that fast food is incredibly popular in wealthy countries (like England and the USA). Due to the high levels of development in these countries, consumers possess more money and can therefore consume vast amounts of fast food without seriously diminishing their income.

For example, the American Dietary Association found that (compared to the average Indian household), the average American household has a six times larger budget for food per month. Consequently, it is to be expected that obesity rates are much higher in countries with larger amounts of wealth.

However, despite the severity of the obesity problem, there are a number of ways in which developed countries could battle it more effectively. Firstly, developed governments could put far more pressure on fast food outlets to provide healthy alternatives to hamburgers, french fries and soft drinks.

Secondly, public exercise initiatives could be advertised and promoted far more vigorously. Lastly, modules that inform teenagers about healthy dietary requirements could be taught at schools.

In conclusion, although obesity is a serious issue in the developed world, if the above steps are taken, the situation will surely improve in the coming years.


The global phenomenon of urbanisation from the beginning of industrialisation to the present day has brought opportunity and prosperity, albeit at a cost in the quality of life. With an increasing city population, the complexity of the challenges also increases. The causes and solutions for this are outlined below.

The causes for the decrease in the quality of life are paradoxically the prosperity endowed on such metropolitan centres. Their growth is largely due to the increase of opportunities on offer, which in turn increases their attractiveness; essentially they are trapped in a positive self-reinforcing cycle.

However, this eventually leads to a decrease in the quality of life as the city can experience overcrowding, exorbitant property prices, and increased vulnerability to terrorist attacks. For example, the density of London makes it a more efficient place to attack, when compared to a smaller city, such as Bradford. Therefore, due to continuous growth and prosperity, urban citizens, especially the less well off, often experience a lower standard of living.

Considering the solutions, greater investment in public transport would ease traffic congestion, as would bike lanes. In theory this would reduce air pollution and possibly improve the wellbeing of the population if they did adopt a more active lifestyle and cycle to work.

To counter violent terrorist attacks, cities could embark on CCTV installations, so as to closely monitor for threats. For example, it is said, the CCTV in London has foiled many potential attacks, and therefore greatly increased the security of its citizens.

To conclude, a wealthy city attracts large population inflows, which then cause pressure on existing infrastructure and security. Various solutions exist to mitigate such drawbacks, but nevertheless a definite solution has yet to be found.


It cannot be disputed that the world is experiencing an environmental crisis. According to recent research, if nothing is done to tackle climate change in the near future, our planet will face the devastating consequences of global warming. Undoubtedly, it is the role of governments and corporate organisations to take action, however I strongly feel that individuals need to make a contribution to deal with this pressing problem as well.

Politicians could certainly invest public finances in order to research the issues connected with climate change and, furthermore, could pass laws in relation to industrial pollution, which is making a major contribution to the greenhouse effect. Nevertheless, it requires constant pressure from citizens, either alone or in environmental pressure groups, on our leaders to make this happen. The general public can protest, lobby their politicians or vote for a political party who proposes introducing green policies if elected.

Similarly, corporate businesses should be adopting more sustainable working practices, for instance, by switching to more environmentally-friendly ways of manufacturing using renewable energy such as solar panels. Likewise, the individual as consumer can play a role here too, by refusing to purchase products which have been manufactured in a way that damages the environment.

It must also be acknowledged that individuals have a moral responsibility to care for our planet. For example, reducing consumption of fossil fuels whenever possible, becoming self-sufficient by growing their own vegetables and switching off lights when they are not needed. Although some of these actions may seem minor, the cumulative effect of everyone taking such actions would be enormous.

It is probably certainly the case that governments and international companies are the key players with responsibility for protecting our planet. Nonetheless, I am still convinced that ordinary people, either individually or cooperatively, can help to make the changes necessary to have a significant impact on our future.

Parents throughout the world place spend time reading with their offspring to prepare them for school where their literacy skills are further developed; however, recent research suggests that focusing on reading at an early age can be detrimental, and participating in fun activities would be far more beneficial. I am a strong advocate of this approach, and the benefits of it will be covered in this essay.

A fundamental reason for this is that there is no biological age for reading, and pushing infants to acquire this skill before they are ready could have repercussions. For example, in the UK, many boys are reluctant readers, possibly because of being forced to read, and this turned them off reading. By focusing on other activities and developing other skills such as creativity and imagination, when they are ready to read, they usually acquire this skill rapidly.

In addition, the importance of encouraging creativity and developing a child's imagination must be acknowledged. Through play, youngsters develop social and cognitive skills, for example, they are more likely to learn vocabulary through context rather than learning it from a book.

Furthermore, play allows youngsters to mature emotionally, and gain self-confidence. There is no scientific research which suggests reading at a young age is essential for a child's development, moreover, evidence suggests the reverse is true. In Finland, early years' education focuses on playing.

Reading is only encouraged if a child shows and interest in developing this skill. This self-directed approach certainly does not result in Finnish school leavers falling behind their foreign counterparts. In fact, Finland was ranked the sixth best in the world in terms of reading.

Despite being a supporter of this non-reading approach, I strongly recommend incorporating bedtime stories into a child's daily routine. However, reading as a regular daytime activity should be swapped for something which allows the child to develop other skills.
The conventional rote method of learning is often considered to be so dull as to discourage full development of young people’s innate abilities. This essay agrees with the view that the current pedagogy is outdated, and will consider an alternative to traditional education.
While ordinarily, children are expected to retain pre approved information dictated by a teacher, a self-directed approach can be more beneficial. Holding all children to the same standard will necessarily have a divisive result, with some children believing themselves to be intellectually superior, and others feeling inadequate, perhaps for life.
In systems in which achievement is relative, such as in Finland for example, young people graduate from education each feeling as if they have completed their own unique path, and knowing deeply and without prejudice their own capabilities, reducing or even eliminating the feelings of inequality that conventional education creates.
Furthermore, under the current system, students who lack aptitude in core subjects such as mathematics and the sciences are seen as having less intrinsic value to society. These children spend their lives believing that they are inadequate, but many may have valuable talents that were never explored.
It is in this way that conventional education does the most harm, by ignoring niche abilities in favour of skills with more mass appeal. Comparing traditional education with the Finnish system of self-direction, we can see that the former is certainly causing harm to a significant number of pupils.
To conclude, changes are urgently required in education systems around the world. We should focus more on a child’s interests and innate abilities in order to maintain their engagement, and allow them to direct their own learning to achieve the best outcomes.
The maps show Pacific Railway Station in 1998 and the present day. We can see that the station has been expanded, with significantly more facilities available to customers now compared with 1998. Firstly, the station has been developed and the number of platforms has increased.

In 1998, there were only four platforms but today there are seven. A restaurant has been added between the new and old platforms and the number of shops has grown, as there are now two shops situated next to the restaurant and the old shop has been removed. The ticket office remains in the same place but has been extended and is now much larger.

The Café has also stayed in roughly the same place, which is at the bottom of the old platforms. The toilets were previously in a separate building next to the platforms, but they have now disappeared. A new supermarket has been built at the bottom of the new platforms.
The graph shows information about the amount of money which was earned by three bakeries in Calgary, over a ten-year period between 2000 and 2010.

Overall, what stands out from the graph is that there were considerable upward trends in the income of both Bolo Cakery and Amandine Bakery, while the earnings of Mari Bakeshop saw a considerable fall over the period in question. Another interesting point is that Mari Bakeshop was the most popular bakery in 2000, but in 2010, Amandine Bakery earned more money than the others.

Looking at the details, as regards Bolo Cakery, income started at $20,000 in 2000, then there was a fluctuation over the next three years, at which point it levelled off at just under $40,000 until 2006. Then the figure went up significantly, finishing at around $65,000 in 2010. If we look at Amandine Bakery, the trend was similar. Having remained stable at approximately $55,000 in the first half of the decade, income then rose sharply, reaching nearly $100,000 in 2008. There was then a gradual rise to around $105,000 in 2010.

By contrast, the income of Mari Bakeshop went in the opposite direction. Takings fluctuated around $90,000 until 2004. After That despite falling sharply to just over $40,000 in 2008, the figure then levelled off in the last two years.
The two maps show the main changes which have taken place in the town of Nelson between the year 2000 and today.

In general, it appears that Nelson has become a much more modern city, with far more shopping and transport facilities.

One interesting change is that a new trans line has been built, to connect the university with the town centre. In 2000, there wasn't any accommodation for students, but a hall of residence has been built near the university. Another striking change is that the old market in the west of the city has been knocked down to make way for new shops. A completely new covered market has also been built on the other side of town.

If we look at the port area, it has been pedestrianized since 2000, and a range of entertainment facilities have been built, such as restaurants, bars and clubs. The north-east of the city used to be a green area, with lots of trees, but the trees have been cut down, and a new shopping complex has been constructed. A final interesting development has been the introduction of a bike-rental scheme in the city centre.
The pie chart shows which type of takeaway food is the most popular in Canada, while the bar chart shows how many Indian restaurants existed in Canada between 1960 and 2015. We can see that Chinese and Indian takeaways are the favourites, and that the number of Indian restaurants in Canada rose steadily during this period.

The pie chart shows that Chinese and Indian takeaways are much more popular than all the others, at 34% and 26%. There are another two types that quite a lot of people like. These are Italian at 10% and Persian at 9%. Greek, Japanese and Mexican were only chosen by 1% of people.

The pie chart shows us that Indian food is popular and the bar chart shows how its popularity grew. There was a rising trend from 1960 onwards. The increase was greatest in the 1990s, from about 5000 restaurants in 1990 to almost 8000 in 2000. Since 2007, the number has remained stable at just over 9000.
The bar graph shows how many servings of certain food items are sold on average every day in two different seasons at the Brisk Café. The average number of sales of each item changed with the season.

Certain food items had much higher sales than others in the winter. Hot coffee had the highest number of sales, with an average of 75 servings sold daily. Following this, the item with the second highest number of sales was soup, with an average of 50 servings sold daily. Salad and ice cream had average daily sales of 25 servings each, and iced coffee had the lowest number of sales, with close to zero servings sold daily.

The sales numbers for each food item were different in the summer from what they were in the winter. Iced coffee sales rose significantly, to an average of 40 servings sold daily. The item that had the second highest number of sales was ice cream, with an average of 35 servings sold daily. Hot coffee sales fell to just 30 servings daily. Soup and salad had the lowest number of sales, with 25 servings sold daily on average.

In general, the average daily sales of each food item changed when the season changed. Certain items were more popular in the winter, but certain others were more popular in the summer.
The line graph sets out the key motivations for people relocating to the capital of a specific country between 2000 and 2015.

Moving for the purpose of study saw the greatest rise overall, with a jump of approximately 62,000. It rose considerably in two periods - from 2000 to 2005 (by 22,000), and then again from 2010 to 2015 (by 33,000), with a more gentle growth of around 7,000 in between.

Elsewhere, the figure of people relocating for work began at 61,000 in 2000, then peaked at 92,000 in 2010 - the highest of any reason, in any year - before finishing as the joint-highest in 2015 (87,000 - on a level with those relocating in order to study). Notably, this category was the only one of the four that underwent a downturn.

Turning to 'adventure', this category rose the most stably and steadily of all four categories, from 11,000 to 15,000 over the fifteen-year period. Meanwhile, the number of people relocating for 'family and friends' reasons climbed gently in the first five years (12,000 to 14,000), followed by an upswing to 22,000, before eventually levelling off at around 23,000 in 2015.
The bar chart compares the different ages of people living in Iceland between 1990 and 2020.

All in all, the size of the 25-54 age group increased the most over the period while the size of the two younger age groups decreased a little bit. The number of people in the two older age groups stayed about the same.

The 25-54 age group grew from approximately a third of the population in 1990 to nearly half of the population in 2020.

The older two age groups did not increase or decrease much. The size of the 65 and over age group remained at about 13%, whereas the size of the 55 -64 age group only fell from about 14% to about 10% of the population.

By contrast, the 0-14 age group fell from just over 25% in 1990 to just under 20% in 2020. Similarly, the 15-24 age group dropped from just over 20% of the population in 1990 to just under 10% of the population in 2020.
The two tables together give a snapshot of the reasons people choose to stop smoking and when they intend to give up.

The main reason smokers give for stopping is for general health (71%), with financial considerations (31%) and the risk of smoking-related diseases (25%) being the next two most popular reasons. One fact to highlight from this table is that almost twice the percentage of heavy smokers cite present health problems as the reason compared to light smokers.

According to the second table, the majority of smokers questioned (71%) intended to give up, with light smokers more inclined to stop (79%) than heavy smokers (60%). 35% of smokers said they were planning to give up within the next six months and only 12% said they were prepared to try within the following month. Although only 29% of smokers on average were unwilling to give up, heavy smokers were almost twice as unwilling to try as light smokers, which perhaps reflects the level of addiction in the former group.
The table shows the changes in household types in Canada at 10-year intervals from 1984 to 2014 and again in 2020.

There has been a steady increase in households without children during this period. One-person households doubled from 6% in 1984 to 12% in 2020, whilst the percentage of couples with no children rose from 19% in 1984 to 23% in 2004 and to 25% in 2014. However, this figure levelled out in 2020. Even bigger changes have occurred when it comes to couples with dependent children. This category shrank from 52% in 1984 to 36% in 2020. In contrast, the percentage of lone parents trebled over the same period, rising from 4% in 1984 to 12% in 2020. The percentage of families with non-dependent children has remained more stable: 10% in 1984, rising only 1% over the next 20 years before falling to 9% in 2014.

In conclusion, the table shows definite patterns of change within the Canadian family over the past 40 years, in particular the decline in the traditional. model of one couple with dependent children.
The charts show projections for global production by sector in 2040 and 2060. Generally speaking, there is little change in the projected proportion of production by the various sectors in the two years, with manufacturing and services being the most dominant.

It is forecast that the services and manufacturing sectors together will account for more than half of global production in 2040 and 2060, 71% (40% and 31%) and 74% (41% and 33%) respectively. By contrast, the proportion of production from energy is expected to decline from 7% in 2040 to 5% in 2060, a drop of approximately one third. It is also anticipated that there will be a similar dramatic drop for agriculture production from 4% to 1% with production in materials, by contrast, comprising 4% in 2060 compared to 3% in 2040.

As regards info-communications and technology, there is expected to be little difference in the proportion of production the sector constitutes, with a slight rise from 15% to 16% over the period.
The table shows estimated literacy rates for men and women in 2000-2004 in five regions: Africa, the Americas, Asia, Europe and Oceania. It also shows average world literacy rates for both genders for the same years.

According to the table, Europe has the highest literacy rates, reaching almost 99%. There is virtually no difference in literacy rates for European men and women.

In Oceania and the Americas, the figures for both men and women are almost the same. In both regions over 93% of the population is literate.

In both Asia and Africa, there are considerable differences in literacy rates between men and women. In Asia, only 72.5% of women are literate, whereas the figure for Asian men is 13% higher. In Africa, the gap is nearly double, with 53.9% of all African women being literate and 71.6% of the African men being able to read and write.

Overall, around 82% of the world population is literate. In Europe, Oceania and the Americas the literacy rates are the highest, with over 90% of the population able to read and write. Asia and Africa have lower literacy rates than the other regions in the graph.
The bar chart shows the percentage of females entering higher education in the years 1980 and 2015. The chart shows the percentages in five countries, the UK, the USA, Australia, South Korea and France. Overall, the proportion of women in higher education increased in the five countries.

In general, there were more female students in 2015 than in 1980, with more than half of women in higher education in all of the countries apart from South Korea. In four of the countries, the percentage of women going into higher education rose.

The most dramatic change was in South Korea, where the percentage doubled from 15% to 30%. The smallest change was seen in France, where the number increased only from 50% to 54%. The only country in which there was not an increase was Australia. Although the percentage of Australian women going into higher education remained the same at 58%, this was the highest in 1980 and equal highest with the USA in 2015.
The two charts give information about the gender and number of athletes who have entered the Games since they started. The bar chart illustrates the number of men and women entering the Games, whereas the line graph shows the number of participants.

It is evident from the bar chart that, until 2012, there were always significantly more men entering the Games than women. In 1924 and 1952, there were hardly any women entering the Games, yet in 1952 there were over 4,000 male participants. In 2012, however, the number of female athletes rose significantly to nearly 5,000, only approximately 1,000 lower than male participants.

The line graph shows a similar trend, with the number of participants increasing throughout the century. The most significant increase occurred between 1984 and 2012, when the number of athletes rose from just over 6,000 to over 10,000 in 2012.

To summarise therefore, since 1924 the number of athletes entering the Olympic Games, has increased dramatically. This is particularly the case for women, who are now represented in nearly the same numbers as male participants.
The bar charts give information about methods of travel and commuting times for six European countries, as well as the average figure for the European Union. From the information, we can see that car use is highest in Denmark at about 12,500 kilometres per person a year, and lowest in Spain and Germany.

Perhaps surprisingly, the Danish also make far greater use of alternative transport than people in other countries, travelling over 3,000 kilometres a year by bus, tram, metro or bike, which is more than double the EU average. By comparison, the British and French travel less than a third of that distance by public transport.

When it comes to commuting times, British drivers spend about 47 minutes each day travelling to work, which is more than any other country. In Denmark and Italy, on the other hand, where many more people use public transport, commuting times are significantly lower.
The line graph shows male and female gym membership over a thirty-year period. The vertical axis represents the number of members in units of 1,000. The horizontal axis represents the period from 1980 to 2010.

Overall, the graph indicates that there were greater fluctuations in gym membership among men than among women. The number of male members started the period at just over two thousand and reached highs of four thousand in 1985 and five thousand around 2005. The lowest rates were between 1993 and 1997 and more recently in 2010 when the rate dipped as low as one thousand.

Female gym membership began lower at one thousand, doubled by 1984, and then fluctuated between two and three thousand for the remainder of the period. When male rates were at their lowest, female rates were higher. This was particularly true between 1993 and 1997 when over three thousand women held gym membership.

In brief, there were marked differences in rates of male and female gym memberships in the period covered.
The pie charts show the principle ways of finding out the news in two different countries, Canada and Australia. The two nations show broadly similar patterns, though there are some differences, both significant and minor.

One of the most prominent features of this data is that, while in Canada over a third of people access the news online, in Australia the figure is more than half, at 52%. It is apparent that viewing the TV news is popular in both countries, with about two fifths of Canadian population favouring this mode of delivery and only 3% fewer in Australia. One major difference between Canada and Australia is that over twice as many people read the news in print in the former, compared with the latter. The figures are 14% and 7% respectively. Similarly, listening to the news on the radio is preferred by three times more people in Canada than in Australia.

Overall, it can be said that the high levels of internet use in Australia mean that other methods such as radio and print are used less in comparison with Canada.
The bar chart shows the percentage of people who have part-time jobs in the countries that make up the United Kingdom, both in 1980 and in 2010. There'has generally been a small increase in part-time workers from 1980 to 2010, except in Northern Ireland. The graph also shows that England and Wales have far more part-time workers than Northern Ireland and Scotland.

In 1980, 25% of people in England worked part time. The only country with a greater percentage of part-time workers was Wales, with around 33% working part time. Both countries saw an increase in the percentage of people working part time in 2010. In England, the percentage rose to over 30% and in Wales percentage rose to just over 35%.

Scotland had the smallest percentage of part-time workers in 1980, with just over ten per cent. However, this rose to almost 20% in 2010 which is a large increase. Lastly, Northern Ireland was the only country which had a decreasing percentage of part-time workers. In 1980, it had around 15% of people in part-time work. This decreased by a couple of per cent in 2010.
The pie chart illustrates the career choices of Brighton University's 2019 graduates, giving the percentages who worked in each of various sectors after finishing university. Overwhelmingly, industry and government were the most popular choices.

Just under half the students went into industry, with service industries attracting more Brighton graduates than any other sector by far — almost a third (33.0%). About half that number (16.3%) took jobs in manufacturing.

Politics and public service were the next most popular choice, accounting for nearly a fifth of graduates. Just over 12% went into politics and a further 5.6% chose the civil service. The other significant career choices were education (about 15%) and two others: transportation and warehousing, with 7.8%; and science and technology with 7.3%.

The least popular choices included work in the charitable sector and careers in sport, both of which were chosen by well under 1% of graduates. Finally, 2.8% entered work in other, unspecified, sectors.
The diagram shows the seven most important stages in the making of honey by bees. The process begins with the honey bees building a hive, and then finishes when the honey is ready to be collected and used.

Firstly, the bees have to build a container. This is called a hive and it consists of many individually built cells. Next, the bees leave the hive in order to search for flowers. When they find a suitable flower, they collect the nectar from it, which is used to make honey.

The nectar is then taken back to the hive where the production process can begin. First, it is put into cells. Then, following this, the nectar must be cooled down. In order to do this, the bees fan the nectar-filled cells with their wings. As a result, the nectar loses its water content and then finally, the honey is produced.
The two maps show the development of a university campus from 2010 to the present day. It can be seen from the maps that the campus has been improved and extended, with much more student accommodation and facilities than previously.

Firstly, the number of student accommodation buildings has been increased in number and size. A previous accommodation block south of the lake has been destroyed and replaced by a new building for students, which includes shops and offices. In addition, the teaching facilities have been extended. The previous single teaching block has been changed into a block only for arts subjects and there is a new building for the sciences to the north of the campus. This has replaced the old university offices. The lawn and outside seating area which were next to the lake have been removed. The lake, however, has remained and is still the central point of the campus.
The bar chart shows the actual and projected share of the economy of Brazil held by the five key business sectors for the years 2009, 2019 and 2029.

Beginning with the real figures, the sectors that saw growth between 2009 and 2019 are Finance, Fossil Fuels and Food Processing with rises of around 5 percent for the two former and around 10% for the latter. However, both Tourism and Manufacturing saw falls of around 5% for that period.

Turning next to the projected figures for 2029, only the Finance sector is predicted to see a continued growth in 2029, again by 5%. Of the remaining sectors, tourism stays at 2019 levels with around 21% and both Food Processing and Oil, Coal and Gas return to 2009 levels (11 and 26% respectively). Meanwhile, Manufacturing sees a further drop in its share, falling by a further 10 percent to around 5 percent.

Overall, for the period covered, the Finance sector stands out in terms of having the largest share of brazil’s economy and its share shows continued growth. The big loser is manufacturing, which starts as the joint smallest sector and sees both real and projected falls.
The line graph shows how many people visited four museums in different countries in the world between 1980 and 2015.

All in all, the Louvre Museum was the most popular, with between approximately 8 and 9 million visitors each year. The least popular were the Shenzhen and the London Science Museum, with no more than 4 million visitors each year.

The number of visitors to the London Science Museum decreased slowly from just over 4 million in 1980 to around 2 million in 2015. By contrast, the visitors to the Vatican Museum increased from just under 5 million in 1980 to around 9 million in 2015.

In addition, the number of visitors to the Shenzhen Museum stayed about the same over the thirty-five-year period. They fell from just under 4 million in 1980 to just over 3 million in 2000 and then rose to just under 4 million again in 2015.
The two charts show the percentages of men and women in employment in three countries in the years 2005 and 2015. In general, we can see that the percentages of working people increased, with the proportion of women showing the most significant rise.

In all of the countries covered, and in both years, the number of men in employment was greater than the number of women. South Korea has the highest rate of male employment – approximately 75% in 2005, rising slightly to about 78% in 2015 – and Canada has the lowest – just over 60% in 2005 and 70% in 2015.

The proportion of women in employment was lower than men in all of the countries covered over the two years. It was below 50% everywhere in 2005, but the figures had risen by 2015. In Canada, over half of the women were working, and in Sweden the figure was exactly 50%. In contrast, the number of South Korean women who were working was only about 35% compared with a percentage which was more than double for men at over 70%.
The two charts illustrate the appliances that young adults in Canada use to watch television programmes and how this has changed over the ten-year period from 2009 to 2019. One of the key changes over this decade is the transition from conventional televisions to flat-screens, with the former falling from 34% to 4% and the latter rising from 8% to 27% for the period, making it the number one television device. The latter has replaced the former as the most popular TV viewing device.

Another general trend is that younger people are now watching television on smaller, more portable devices than in 2009. In particular, the use of mobile phones and tablets for viewing purposes has increased by almost three quarters to 26% and tablet use seeing an almost four-fold increase to 19%. This trend is reinforced by the number of 18 to 25-year-olds using computers for the TV viewing. Both desktop and laptop computers saw substantial falls in usage (around a third for both).

Overall then, it can be said that the two pie charts suggest the TV viewing habits in Canada over the period saw a move away from older devices and towards more modern equivalents.
The table shows the percentage of women in senior management positions in three companies from 1975 to 2015.

While more women were in senior positions at Finsbury Ltd than the other two companies in 1975 at 16%, the trend was fairly erratic with a 2% drop to 14% in 1980, followed by a rise of 1% five years later. In 1990, women held 7% more top management jobs than in 1985. After a slight drop back to 20% in 2000, by 2015 26% of top posts were filled by women.

By contrast, at Eldan Ltd women fared much better. In 1975, 3% of senior posts were occupied by women with no change five years on. By 1985, the figure had increased to 14%, doubling to 28% in 1990. Ten years afterwards, there was a 5% increase in female senior management jobs with a near twofold jump in 2015 to stand at 64%, the highest for the three companies.

The situation was less remarkable at Bamforth Ltd than the other two firms except for the year 2015. In 1975, the percentage of senior posts held by women was 9% climbing at the rate of 2% in each subsequent period until 2000, after which it leapt to 46%.

From the data, it is clear that women dominated senior posts at Eldan by 2015.
The first bar chart shows which countries have won the most medals in the winter Olympics. It also states how many gold, silver and bronze medals each country has achieved. In contrast, the second graph shows which nations have won the most medals in the summer Olympics.

Overall, the first graph shows that in the winter Olympics, Norway has gained the most medals, winning approximately an equal number of gold, silver and bronze medals. It has won about 370 medals, whereas Canada, in fifth place, has won approximately 200 medals.

The results of the summer Olympics are quite different, however, with the USA having won the most medals. Overall, the USA has won just over 2,500 medals, a much higher number than the other four countries on the graph. Russia is the second highest, winning approximately 1,800 medals.

To summarise, the bar charts illustrate how many medals the highest-ranking countries have won in the summer and winter Olympics. The results of each Olympics are very different, with the USA, Russia and Germany being successful in both.
The chart compares population shares in various regions of the world with the distribution of wealth in these same regions. It can be seen that wealth is heavily concentrated in North America, Europe, and high income Asia-Pacific countries which together account for almost 90% of global wealth.

Even though North America has only approximately 6% of the world's population, it boasts nearly 34% of global wealth. A similar situation can be seen in Europe, which has 15% of the global population but 30% of global wealth, and high income Asia-Pacific countries with 5% of the world's population but 24% of its wealth.

In contrast, the overall share of wealth owned by people in Africa, China, India, and other lower income countries in Asia is considerably less than their population share, sometimes by a factor of more than ten. This is most striking in India, where 16% of the world's population own only 1% of the world's wealth and in China, which has the highest percentage of global population (24%) but only 3% of the world's wealth.
The pie chart gives the percentage of passenger cars manufactured by different regions of the world. For the purposes of this data set, the world is divided into seven regions.

What stands out is that the regions of Greater China and Europe lead the way in terms of the manufacture of passenger cars, with 26% and 25% respectively. By contrast, very few cars are produced in the Middle East and Africa: just 2% originate from that area.

Turning next to the Americas, a sharp contrast can be seen between the Northern and Southern parts of the continent. Whereas North America can boast 19% of the world's passenger car production, South America manufactures just 4% of this type of vehicle.

Finally, moving on to Japan and Korea, despite the fact that they are just two countries rather than a whole region, they account for a sizeable proportion of the total, at 16%.
The chart examines the levels of donation among people of different ages in Canada.

Overall, a greater proportion of Canadians gave money to charitable organisations in 2000 than in 2015. However, in terms of trends over time, the donor rate did not change in the same way among all age groups.

In 2000, the proportion of Canadians made charitable donations ranged from a high of 39% in the 35-to-49 age group to a low of 20% in the 18-to-24 age group. By 2015, these figures had fallen significantly to 34% and 11% respectively. The rate of donors among the population aged 25 to 34 also decreased from 29% in 2000 to 25% in 2015.

While the proportion of donors aged 18 to 49 declined between 2000 and 2015, the trend followed an opposite direction for older Canadians. For example, among people aged 50 to 64, the share of donors rose by 4% to nearly 38%, which was the highest percentage for 2015. The figure for older seniors aged 65 and over was lower than this, at 34%, but it was still a little higher than the 2000 figure of 31%.